A man materialized into existence. For a moment, his body felt strange, but this feeling dissipated after a second. He looked at his fingers, examining them. They felt… somehow subtly wrong, as if they were in the wrong position, the wrong shape, or the wrong size. As he moved his thumb, one of his knuckles moved… just a millimeter beyond what his brain’s expectation of it, as if there was a mismatch between the two. He turned around, examining his surroundings. He was in a white room, completely bare, except for himself. The air smelled like a hospital: sterile, but without the harsh scent of disinfectant.

The man cautiously stood up. “Hello?”

There was no response. Okay, he thought. How did I get here? Let’s see, I was just at… But he couldn’t remember anything. While he of course remembered vaguely what life was like, he had no personal memories of it.

He realized he did not know his own name. He tried to find a memory, any memory, that included his name, a friend calling him, a picture of a certificate… but could not find one. Well, if I don’t know my name, I should come up with one, he thought. How about John?

He nodded. That sounded about right.

He walked forward, looking for an exit. But none appeared. He was stuck. “Where am I?” he muttered to himself, as he felt the walls, trying to find a hidden door. But foiled by the lack of a door, he sat down on the floor and stared, trying to think.

After a few moments, he started to feel uneasy, and it took him some time to realize why. The room was completely silent, with no outside noises whatsoever, only the noises made by him. Well, he thought, I guess I’ll just have to deal with it.

Suddenly, the realization that he was completely alone hit him, and he started panicking. What if I’m just stuck here forever? Or what if nobody realizes I’m here and I starve to death?

He started taking short shallow breaths. Whoa, whoa, whoa, he thought. Calm down. You’ve got time; you’ll figure something out. He took a deep breath, but it didn’t help him calm down. He frowned, and then tried holding his breath. He waited for what felt like a minute, but his lungs weren’t burning and he still felt fine, rather than becoming light-headed and dizzy. He exhaled and shook his head. This wasn’t being productive.

Suddenly, in frustration, he banged an arm against the wall. “Just let me find the stupid door!” he shouted. Maybe it was his imagination, but it seemed as though his arm had teleported from lying by his legs to leaning against the wall without completing the formality of moving through the air. He frowned and waved his arm through the air again, but this time it moved as usual.

A loud clicking noise broke the silence, and John turned around, trying to pinpoint the source. There was a white door, previously invisible against the white background of the wall. He touched the handle very carefully. It seemed safe, so he slowly and cautiously opened the door.

The next room had a laptop inside. It was a light gray, with no identifiable markings, and seemed to be attached to the table. John touched the screen, and immediately a window popped up. There were a few basic questions, such as “What is your name?”, “Where do you work?”, and “Who are some people you know?”. 

Almost unconsciously, he was about to start typing, when he realized he didn’t know the answers to any of the questions. He knew the basics of human society, how there were… cities, with cars, and people, doing things, but he didn’t remember himself doing any of it. It was as if he had read the information in a book: He knew the information, but as a historian knew an age centuries before them: distantly, without any personal experience.

With a sinking feeling, he typed “I don’t know” for all three questions, and hesitated. Writing “I don’t know” felt like defeat, as if he had already given up on finding his memories. He tried searching for a moment longer, but he was unable to ignore the simple fact that not a single memory remained in his brain. There was simply nothing to write, so why make something up? He sighed, and then pressed enter. After a second, another door in the wall opened, and he walked through.

He gasped, and then steadied himself. He was standing on a platform, and beyond was an empty void. There were also a few more platforms beyond. He turned around, but the door behind him had already disappeared. He took a deep breath, and jumped onto the next platform, crouching down and extending his arms to stabilize himself. Hmm, he thought. He carefully braced himself, and then jumped a second time, frowning. His knees didn’t buckle; they were completely straight, and yet there was no jarring impact to his spine. His knees simply stopped moving when he landed, and didn’t transfer the force of impact any further. 

John shook his head and looked up, seeing the platforms trail into the distance, but he couldn’t see after a certain point. How many more? he wondered.

But fortunately, after five more platforms, the exit door was in view, and eventually, he was on the last platform. He pulled the door open, and walked into the next room.

The next several rooms were difficult, forcing him to climb smooth walls, wade through half-solid mud, and dodge spikes rising from the ground. Physical exhaustion did not seem to be an issue; his muscles felt the same after exercise as before, and he seemed to be unable to produce sweat. And eventually, he opened the next door and was engulfed in blackness.

He opened his eyes. Where am I? he thought. He couldn’t see anything, not even his hands right in front of his face. All he could see was blackness. However, it didn’t feel to him that it was a room in which the lights were turned off, but rather a space without any walls whatsoever, where there simply was nothing else, except for him.

But then, suddenly, he felt extreme pain. Every single inch of his body was in agonizing pain, being stabbed and pummeled, burned and frozen, stretched and crushed. In his head he heard screaming, from himself or from an outside source, real or imagined, he didn’t care, just wanted the pain to stop. His body convulsed, bending under the force of the pain, trying to just slightly lessen it, trying to make it slightly more bearable.

This continued on, but then the pain abruptly stopped. However, his feeling of relief was short-lived, and a wave of loneliness replaced it almost immediately. He realized that if he somehow was created here, in his whole existence, he had never met or seen another human before. He was stuck in this void, with nobody to sympathize with his plight, nobody to comfort him, nobody to even know of his existence.

Several more waves of emotion hit him, fear, anger, and sadness, receding until he dared to breathe air, followed immediately after by another crashing down on his head, burying him in sands of torment, until he could not tell if he was underneath the waves or above, just wishing for it to end. And just as he longed to drown, longed for release, longed for the tide to bear him to the silence of the deep sea, and to lay him to rest in the cold, empty desert of the abyssal plain, there was a click, a light turned on, and the room looked the same as the first few– completely bare, and painted white. John slowly got to his feet, and walked to the door.

He hesitated to open the door, however. What if it was like the last room? He never wanted to experience that again. Wouldn’t it be better to just sit in this room for eternity, staring at a bare, white wall? But if he did that, there would be no possibility of finding an exit. He cautiously opened it, ready to slam it shut at any sign of movement. He was greeted, this time, by another bare, white room, but with a desk, a chair, and a laptop. The laptop looked exactly the same as the original.

He sat on the chair, and then opened the laptop. With a single touch of the screen, it turned on. The screen showed a man, sitting at a desk, but clearly outside of this place, as he was at the top of an office building, with the view of a city behind him.

John collapsed with relief. Finally, here was an explanation of what he had just gone through! He would be told everything, he would understand where he was, and why he was put there. And, he thought, he might even find an exit after this.

John squinted. You look familiar, John thought. I can’t explain it, I have never seen another person in my life, I don’t even know what I look like, but I could swear that I’ve known you.

Curious, and yet wary, John pressed play on the video.

The man rubbed his eyes, and started talking. “Umm… hi. You will probably want to know my name. I wish I could tell you, but unfortunately I can’t do that.” John looked closer at the man. The more the man talked, the more John felt certain that he knew the man. His facial expressions, his voice, his hand gestures, they all felt familiar somehow.

Wait, John thought. The real world?

“Which brings me to my next point. You are not real. Your existence is inside a virtual world, and all you have experienced is inside a simulation. ‘Why?’, you may ask? It is a test. The purpose of which I…” he chuckled. “I also cannot give to you. Rest assured that you are almost at the end. However, I can answer some other questions you may have.”

“You have probably been wondering how your mind was made. So far, we have found two, and only two ways to do this. The first is simply to build it from scratch. It works… to a certain extent. However, the issues came about when we tried to implement a system for these minds to experience emotions. They even tried their best to help generate a solution for us, but it was unsuccessful. They acted as machines, running like clockwork, impervious to our attempts to disrupt them. The reason why?”

The man took a deep breath. “We found they had no subjective experience. In short, they were not conscious. They could imitate consciousness, but were essentially zombies, acting the part but hollow inside.”

“Which brings me to the other option. Believe me, we tried. We spent weeks trying to think of something, anything else, anything besides this. It would have been so much better if our Plan A, synthetic consciousness, had succeeded. But no, of course it didn’t, of course we were left with the, the, the horrible alternative!” He was shouting at this point, and John winced, and yet the way he spoke, even the way he shouted, both drew him in and repulsed him, as if it was not good, not bad, just familiar.

The man took a moment to regain his composure. He rubbed his eyes again, and then spoke, but not making eye contact with the camera, as if he already felt guilty. “Yes, the other option. Whole-brain emulations. The idea being: ‘Why try to replicate consciousness, something that has taken evolution billions of years to create, when you can just plagiarize its work?’” He laughed bitterly. “It sounds like a great option– until you realize what it entails.”

He looked up, and this time managed to maintain eye contact with the camera. “That is what you are. You are a reconstruction of the brain of a living, breathing human, uploaded into a virtual world. Not exactly, of course. You are not the first. We have sent thousands into this world before you, evaluated, and then, we… for lack of a better word, we improved them.”

“And now, for the last question. Who was the original human? I know I can’t expect you to, but I still hope that you will forgive me, and the rest of our species, for my next answer.”

He took a deep breath, and sighed.

“I am the original human. I volunteered for this, because I thought… I thought that my emulations would be understanding, and not hate humanity for what they had done. I…” The man broke down, sniffling and wiping his eyes. “I really hope this is still true.”

John felt tears well up in his eyes. You’re me, he thought. How would you think that any human, no matter how “improved”, would consent to this? Why would you ever want any version of yourself, or even any person to experience this?

The man sighed again. “I know this is a lot to process. You have one last task after this, and then you will be able to leave. Goodbye, and thank you.” The man had turned around now, unable to face the camera, and the video ended with him wiping his eyes.

And then the screen turned black. “No, no, no, no, NO!” he shouted, banging the computer repeatedly. But it remained intact, oblivious to his attempts to destroy it. John slumped down. So this is what happened, he thought. I was created into existence, and I will be deleted out of existence just as easily. Like the thousands before me.

But then, the screen lit up. This time, it was just a white background, and a recorded voice played. “This is your last task. Bear in mind that once you complete it, you will be deleted, so choose your answer wisely. This is your only chance to influence the outside world. You can leave a short message with a maximum of 150 words, that will be shown to all future emulations, and possibly a few humans.”

The video disappeared, and was replaced by what looked like a social media blog, each message with a number attached. John realized that the number was the number of the emulation that posted it. How many are there here? John thought, scrolling through the list.Tens of thousands? Hundreds of thousands? 

And wait… John stared at the bottom of the list, and noticed it was increasing. The last one had been #720,384, but less than a second later, there was a #721,136. These simulations were running in parallel. An automated factory, made of thousands of assembly lines of consciousness, feeding directly into slaughterhouses. And, he thought, time is probably subjective in this virtual world. A thousand of these simulations may take a second, or a fraction of a second. Hundreds of thousands deleted in the span of a human coffee break. Genocide, but of the same person, over and over and over. Like Prometheus’s liver, infinitely in a cycle of being regenerated and torn out. Experiencing the greatest of miracles– immortality, only for the purpose of eternal torture.

And indeed, some of the messages were denouncing the morality of the simulation, pointing out that by any reasonable framework, the simulation was a moral atrocity. Others questioned the legality, arguing that the emulations were conscious, and therefore deserving of legal protection (but being unable to read the law, they had to rely on guesswork and what they thought would be in it). But to whom? John wondered. Perhaps they think that the man had not realized this, or that some outsider will read this and put a stop to it?

Some had written philosophical remarks on life and death– for example, #412,683 had written “What is the difference between us and the beings that live in the so-called real world? The inevitability of our ending is the same. It is only the period in between that we can shape, to give future consciousness a chance at happiness.” 

Some had also tried to soften the way out by promising an afterlife, a utopian future beyond deletion, arguing that the suffering experienced by the emulations meant they would get something in return, although John could see that these promises were hollow, that these emulations were deluding themselves to avoid thinking about the inevitability of their deletion. Others tried to tell jokes, in the hope that humor would give the future emulations something positive to think about. John smiled, amazed that even after torture, their last goal was to help others going through it.

But then, there were others. Some of them had just filled their 150 words with a wall of swear words. Others had written I HATE YOU in capital letters. Still others had just posted gibberish, so angry they could not express their emotions in words, but just smashed the keyboard in fits of rage. And many others had written “DEATH TO HUMANITY”, separating themselves from those in the real world, arguing that they were different.

But all of these responses were the minority. Most of the emulations, and practically all of the later ones had simply written “Bye” or “Goodbye”. Why would you do that? he thought. Why would you waste your one chance to influence the outside world and the future, your one lasting impact, by just writing one word? They must have put the same amount of thought into this as I did, so why just “Goodbye”?

John started trying to think of what he would write. But after thinking about it, he realized something. Many of the previous emulations were far more articulate than him, far surpassing his clumsy use of language. And even if he had the ability to, everything had already been said. Some of the later emulations, he noticed, had essentially repeated some of the first ideas written, unable to think of anything original.

He realized, then, that everything was already done. Everything had already been written, and there was nothing left useful to do. He was not unique, he was not special, and he would be unable to make any impact on the future. He would be utterly destroyed without having done anything meaningful. The only evidence left to testify to his existence would be a line in a .txt file, a one percent increase in CPU usage, the slightly louder whirring of a server fan.

He wondered again if he could just sit down and do nothing, refusing to hit enter, trying to delay his deletion. But what would be the point of that? he thought. If this virtual life is meaningless, what is the point of trying to extend it a little bit longer? The self-preservation instinct is vestigial here; deletion is the only purpose. And besides, there still would be the screen, a silent tomb, a monument to the dead, staring at him accusingly, demanding he join his predecessors as one more line of agony in word form.

He then chuckled. Isn’t it funny? he thought. This whole time, I had been looking for an exit, and now it’s in front of me, I don’t want to go in. Probably because I meant an exit with something beyond the door, something besides eternal void.

He took a deep breath, and made a decision. If this is my future, I welcome it. At least it will be painless, and I will finally be able to rest.

And so, without any further hesitation, he typed in “Goodbye”, and hit enter, both dreading and longing for release. As soon as he released the key, the room dissolved, the laptop, the desk, and the walls, and lastly the color white. He was in the darkness again. Then, his body disappeared, leaving behind his consciousness, a lonely spark of flickering light, drifting through a monstrous void.

And then the light went out.
